---
title: "PHD with teaching duties (Doctorant chargé d'enseignements)"
collection: teaching
type: "Academic teaching"
permalink: /teaching/2020-DCE
venue: "Université Paul Sabatier"
date: 2020-02-02
location: "Toulouse, France"
---

Teaching assistant in astrophysics, thermodynamics, mechanics and more at [Université Paul Sabatier](https://www.univ-tlse3.fr) from 2020 to 2023 (Click for more informations).

L1,L2 and L3 correspond respectively to the first second and third year of the Licence/Bachelor degree.

Astrophysics L3
======

One semester of tutorials (12h) for an introduction to astrophysics in third year. Kepler laws, black holes, stellar evolution, dark matter and cosmology.

Fluid mechanics L2
======

One semester of tutorials (14h). Detailled study of static, perfect and viscous fluids.

Thermodynamics L2
======

Two semesters of tutorials for a total of three groups (45h) in thermodynamics in second year. Basic principles, equation of states, first (energy) and second (entropy) principles, thermodynamics functions, phase transitions. 

Point mechanics L1
======

One semester of tutorials (15h) in Newtonian point mechanics in first year. Cinematics, dynamics and energetics.

Geometric optics L1
======

One semester of tutorials (16h). Snell-Descartes laws, plane and spherical medium transition, study of the human eye an its optical defects, lenses and mirrors.

Labs L1
======

Labs in first year. Mechanics (21h) and electrocinetics (18h)

Light and color L1
======

Tutorials, supervision and evaluation of interdisciplinary student project about light (physics/biology/chemestry) in first year (18h).