---
title: "Astrophysical and local constraints on string theory: Runaway dilaton models"
collection: publications
excerpt: 'C.J.A.P. Martins and \bf{L. Vacher}'
date: 2019-12-01
venue: 'Physical Review Letter D'
paperurl: 'http://academicpages.github.io/files/paper1.pdf'
citation: 'Your Name, You. (2009). &quot;Paper Title Number 1.&quot; <i>Journal 1</i>. 1(1).'
---
One of the clear predictions of string theory is the presence of a dynamical scalar partner of the spin-2 graviton, known as the dilaton. This will violate the Einstein Equivalence Principle, leading to a plethora of possibly observable consequences which is a cosmological context include dynamical dark energy and spacetime variations of nature's fundamental constants. The runaway dilaton scenario of Damour, Piazza and Veneziano is a particularly interesting class of string theory inspired models which can in principle reconcile a massless dilaton with experimental data. Here we use the latest background cosmology observations, astrophysical and laboratory tests of the stability of the fine-structure constant and local tests of the Weak Equivalence Principle to provide updated constraints on this scenario, under various simplifying assumptions. Overall we find consistency with the standard ΛCDM paradigm, and we improve the existing constraints on the coupling of the dilaton to baryonic matter by a factor of six, and to the dark sector by a factor of two. At the one sigma level the current data already excludes dark sector couplings of order unity, which would be their natural value.

[Download paper here](https://arxiv.org/pdf/1911.10821.pdf)

Recommended citation: Martins and Vacher, (2019). "Astrophysical and local constraints on string theory: runaway dilaton models." Phys. Rev. D 100, 123514 (2019)